README-TEAM-DY321.md, before:

## Team-phase work by dy321
D3 build: in SheetBeautifyB3.fs (module SheetBeautifyB3)

Contribution to team-phase work: implemented some fundamental functionalities required for D3.

### Implemented functionalities useful in D3 Build:
1. Replace a single given wire with wire labels.
    1. function to get starting and ending positions of original wire
    2. defined user-variable threshold (above which the wires would be converted into wire labels)
    3. defined minimum separation between a component and a wire label (in module Constants)
    4. function to add IOLabel (wire label) component
    5. function to place new wires between components and wire labels
    6. function to remove the original wire
2. Get total length of a wire and filter out the long ones.
3. Try adjusting the positions of new wire labels so that they don't overlap with other symbols.

### Remaining work in D3 to be done:
1. Refine the position-adjusting function, change to recursive if possible.
2. Remove wire labels and change into single wires (reverse operation) when under threshold.
3. Improve symbol rendering.

Commit message:

updates to method of setting positions & orientations of new wire labels in D3

README-TEAM-DY321.md, after:

## Team-phase work by dy321
D3 build: in SheetBeautifyB3.fs (module SheetBeautifyB3)

Contribution to team-phase work: implemented and (roughly) tested some fundamental functionalities required for D3.

### Implemented functionalities useful in D3 Build:
1. Replace a single given wire with wire labels.
    1. function to get starting and ending positions of original wire
    2. defined user-variable threshold (above which the wires would be converted into wire labels)
    3. defined minimum separation between a component and a wire label (in module Constants)
    4. function to add IOLabel (wire label) component
    5. function to place new wires between components and wire labels
    6. function to remove the original wire
2. Get total length of a wire and filter out the long ones.
3. Try adjusting the positions of new wire labels so that they don't overlap with other symbols.

### Remaining work in D3 to be done:
1. Refine the position-adjusting function, (e.g. reduce overlap with wires; change to recursive if possible).
2. Remove wire labels and change into single wires (reverse operation) when under threshold.
3. Refine wire label naming: set a unique common wire label name for each net; derive wire label names from names of driving components and/or ports.
4. Improve symbol rendering.
