---
layout: post
title:  "ISSIE v2.1.0"
date:   2021-07-04 15:52:01 +0100
categories: Issie Blog

---

## Introduction

Issie came about when we were working out the coursework for a combined two-Term 1st year Digital Electronics and Computer Architecture module in the Electronic and Electrical Engineering Department, Imperial College London. For those interested it is Elec40003. We wanted coursework for introductory Digital Electronics, that would scale to simple CPU design, with hierarchical block schematic based design entry. We considered an HDL, and decided this was less intuitive and in any case the extra time learning an HDL could be better used. Schematics help in visualising signal flow and hierarchy - key concepts when first learning digital Electronics. There is also a strong case for preferring block schematic representation for the top-level structural levels of a design, even if the design is all written in an HDL.

## Updates

It is now, v2.1.0, one year from when Issie was first created, and it has survived three terms of heavy use by 1st year undergraduates. The final working student designs, implemented from scratch with no pre-built blocks, were dual-core CPUs with cut-down ARM-like instruction set, UARTs, and IEEE 754 single precision FPUs. Designs were can output as Verilog and synthesised on FPGAs or (as additional validation) simulated with a Verilog simulator.

The original design created by Marco Selvatici (3rd year EEE student) has stood quite well, with two major changes:

- **Simulation**. the original (very clever) recursive functional simulator proved to be incapable of correctly representing circuits with complex subsheets that contain clocked and combinational logic. Also it was very slow. So we wrote, under pressure of student complex designs not quite working, a new simulator. This flattened the hierarchical design to a sea of Issie components and then determined a feasible fixed execution order for all components. It proved robust and also much, much, faster than the original simulation. Both of these qualities were needed!

- **Drawing library**. Issie originally depended on Draw2D - a big and very sophisticated Javascript draw library. The schematic editor used this and added custom (Javascript) digital component symbols. However the wire auto-router in this library that we wanted to use proved to be buggy (it would crash) and it was not easy to mend because the crash was an infinite loop through a lot of complex Draw2D repainting code. A completely new custom drawing library designed specifically for Issie was written by 3rd year students in EEE, and integrated with Issie. This was debugged through Summer Term issue usage and is now more usable than the original Draw2D library. This rewrite has a lot of advantages - the application is now all F#, the draw library is written as a fully MVU (Elm-like) web-style application without internal state, and the complete draw library is now much faster than the old Javascript one.

These changes and some other minor additions have pushed the code base from 8K lines F# to 17K lines. F# is a very concise language, so that is a significant program.

Issie is run as an open source project but thus far all serious development has been internal to Imperial College London, from staff and students. We are now hoping that other people will be interested!